README.md, before:

# popl2017-papers

Links to [accepted papers][popl2017-accepted] for the [44th ACM
SIGPLAN-SIGACT Symposium on Principles of Programming
Languages][popl2017-website] (POPL 2017).  **Pull requests welcome!**

[popl2017-website]: http://popl17.sigplan.org/home
[popl2017-accepted]: http://popl17.sigplan.org/track/POPL-2017-papers#event-overview

(Similar pages are available for [POPL 2016][popl2016], [2015][popl2015], [2014][popl2014], and [2013][popl2013], ICFP ([2016][icfp16],
[2015][icfp15], [2014][icfp14], [2013][icfp13], [2012][icfp12]) and [PLDI 2014][pldi2014-accepted].)

[popl2013]: https://github.com/23Skidoo/popl13-papers-links
[popl2014]: https://github.com/gasche/popl2014-papers
[popl2015]: https://github.com/yallop/popl2015-papers
[popl2016]: https://github.com/gasche/popl2016-papers
[icfp12]: https://github.com/technogeeky/icfp12-paper-links
[icfp13]: https://github.com/gasche/icfp2013-papers
[icfp14]: https://github.com/yallop/icfp2014-papers
[icfp15]: https://github.com/mpickering/icfp2015-papers
[icfp16]: https://github.com/gasche/icfp2016-papers
[haskell2014-accepted]: https://github.com/yallop/haskell2014-papers
[pldi2014-accepted]: https://github.com/yallop/pldi2014-papers

Note: if you are editing this repository, please remember to use the
Markdown syntax for hard line breaks, namely two spaces at the end of
the line.

Note: the "final version" deadline for POPL'17 is November 7, so it is
fair to assume that more authors will have preprints available after
that.

## POPL 2017

A Posteriori Environment Analysis with Pushdown Delta CFA  
Kimball Germane, Matthew Might  
([preprint](http://kimball.germane.net/germane2017pddeltacfa-preprint.pdf))

A Program Optimization for Automatic Database Result Caching  
Ziv Scully, Adam Chlipala  
([preprint](http://adam.chlipala.net/papers/SqlcachePOPL17/SqlcachePOPL17.pdf), [website](http://adam.chlipala.net/papers/SqlcachePOPL17/))

A Promising Semantics for Relaxed-Memory Concurrency  
Jeehoon Kang, Chung-Kil Hur, Ori Lahav, Viktor Vafeiadis, Derek Dreyer  
([draft](http://sf.snu.ac.kr/promising/release/promising.pdf), [website](http://sf.snu.ac.kr/promise-concurrency/), [coq proofs](https://github.com/snu-sf/promising-coq))

A Relational Model of Types-and-Effects in Higher-Order Concurrent Separation Logic  
Morten Krogh-Jespersen, Kasper Svendsen, Lars Birkedal  
([preprint](http://cs.au.dk/~birke/papers/iris-effects-conf.pdf))

A Semantic Account of Metric Preservation  
Arthur Azevedo de Amorim, Ikram Cherigui, Marco Gaboardi, Justin Hsu, Shin-ya Katsumata  
([draft](https://justinh.su/files/docs/ACGHK16paper.pdf))

A Short Counterexample Property for Safety and Liveness Verification of Fault-tolerant Distributed Algorithms  
Igor Konnov, Marijana Lazic, Helmut Veith, Josef Widder  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1608.05327) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1608.05327))

Analyzing divergence in bisimulation semantics  
Xinxin Liu, Tingting Yu, Wenhui Zhang  

AutoPriv: Automating Differential Privacy Proofs  
Danfeng Zhang, Daniel Kifer  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1607.08228) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.08228))

Automatically Comparing Memory Consistency Models  
John Wickerson, Mark Batty, Tyler Sorensen, George A. Constantinides  
([preprint](https://johnwickerson.github.io/papers/memalloy.pdf))

Automatically Generating the Dynamic Semantics of Gradually Typed Languages  
Matteo Cimini, Jeremy Siek  
([preprint](http://cimini.info/publications/gradualizerDynamicSemanticspreprint.pdf))

Beginner's Luck: A Language for Property-Based Generators  
Leonidas Lampropoulos, Diane Gallois-Wong, Cătălin Hriţcu, John Hughes, Benjamin C. Pierce, Li-yao Xia  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1607.05443) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.05443))

Big Types in Little Runtime  
Michael Vitousek, Cameron Swords, Jeremy Siek  
([preprint](http://homes.soic.indiana.edu/mvitouse/papers/popl17.pdf), [supplement](http://homes.soic.indiana.edu/mvitouse/popl17sup.pdf), [artifact](http://homes.soic.indiana.edu/mvitouse/popl17artifact.html))

Cantor Meets Scott: Semantic Foundations for Probabilistic Networks  
Steffen Smolka, Praveen Kumar, Nate Foster, Dexter Kozen, Alexandra Silva  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1607.05830) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.05830))

Coming to Terms with Quantified Reasoning  
Simon Robillard, Andrei Voronkov, Laura Kovacs  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1611.02908) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.02908))

Complexity Verification Using Guided Theorem Enumeration  
Akhilesh Srikanth, Burak Sahin, William Harris  

Component-Based Synthesis for Complex APIs  
Yu Feng, Ruben Martins, Yuepeng Wang, Isil Dillig, Thomas Reps  
([preprint](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/~yufeng/papers/sypet.pdf))

Computational Higher-Dimensional Type Theory  
Carlo Angiuli, Robert Harper, Todd Wilson  
([preprint](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~rwh/papers/chitt/popl17.pdf))

Context-sensitive data dependence analysis via Linear Conjunctive Language Reachability  
Qirun Zhang, Zhendong Su  

Contextual isomorphisms  
Paul Blain Levy  
([preprint](http://www.cs.bham.ac.uk/~pbl/papers/contextiso.pdf))

Contract-based Resource Verification for Higher-order Functions with Memoization  
Ravichandhran Madhavan, Sumith Kulal, Viktor Kuncak  
([draft](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/5b05/6f2f9bc4ba82fba40ca30a5d4fb0295d56aa.pdf))

Coupling proofs are probabilistic product programs  
Gilles Barthe, Benjamin Gregoire, Justin Hsu, Pierre-Yves Strub  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1607.03455) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.03455))

Deciding equivalence with sums and the empty type  
Gabriel Scherer  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1610.01213) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.01213))

Dijkstra Monads for Free  
Danel Ahman, Cătălin Hriţcu, Kenji Maillard, Guido Martínez, Gordon Plotkin, Jonathan Protzenko, Aseem Rastogi, Nikhil Swamy  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1608.06499) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1608.06499), [other materials](https://www.fstar-lang.org/papers/dm4free/))

Do be do be do  
Sam Lindley, Conor McBride, Craig McLaughlin  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1611.09259) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.09259), [slides](https://msp-strath.github.io/spls-16/slides/McLaughlin.pdf))

Dynamic Race Detection For C++11  
Christopher Lidbury, Alastair Donaldson  

Exact Bayesian Inference by Symbolic Disintegration  
Chung-chieh Shan, Norman Ramsey  
([preprint](http://homes.soic.indiana.edu/ccshan/rational/disintegrator.pdf))

Fast Polyhedra Abstract Domain  
Gagandeep Singh, Markus Püschel, Martin Vechev  
([preprint](http://www.srl.inf.ethz.ch/papers/POPL17-Polyhedra.pdf))

Fencing off Go: Liveness and Safety for Channel-based Programming  
Julien Lange, Nicholas Ng, Bernardo Toninho, Nobuko Yoshida  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1610.08843) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.08843), [artifact website](http://mrg.doc.ic.ac.uk/tools/gong/))

From F to DOT: Type Soundness Proofs with Definitional Interpreters  
Nada Amin, Tiark Rompf  
([preprint](https://www.cs.purdue.edu/~rompf/papers/amin-popl17a.pdf))

Genesis: Synthesizing Forwarding Tables in Multi-tenant Networks  
Kausik Subramanian, Loris D'Antoni, Aditya Akella  
([preprint](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~loris/papers/popl17genesis.pdf))

Gradual Refinement Types  
Nicolás Lehmann, Éric Tanter  
([preprint](https://pleiad.cl/papers/2017/lehmannTanter-popl2017.pdf))

Hazelnut: A Bidirectionally Typed Structure Editor Calculus  
Cyrus Omar, Ian Voysey, Michael Hilton, Jonathan Aldrich, Matthew Hammer  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1607.04180) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.04180), [website](https://hazelgrove.github.io/), [live implementation](https://hazelgrove.github.io/implementation/hz.html), [agda proofs](https://github.com/hazelgrove/agda-popl17))

Hypercollecting Semantics and its Application to Static Analysis of Information Flow  
Mounir Assaf, David Naumann, Julien Signoles, Éric Totel, Frédéric Tronel  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1608.01654) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1608.01654))

Interactive Proofs in Higher-Order Concurrent Separation Logic  
Robbert Krebbers, Amin Timany, Lars Birkedal  
([preprint](http://robbertkrebbers.nl/research/articles/proofmode.pdf))

Intersection Type Calculi of Bounded Dimension  
Andrej Dudenhefner, Jakob Rehof  
(article available [on the ACM DL](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3009862))

Invariants of Quantum Programs: Characterisations and Generation  
Mingsheng Ying, Shenggang Ying, Xiaodi Wu  
([preprint](http://ix.cs.uoregon.edu/~xiaodiwu/papers/popl17.pdf))

Java generics are Turing complete  
Radu Grigore  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1605.05274) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1605.05274))

LMS-Verify: Abstraction Without Regret for Verified Systems Programming  
Nada Amin, Tiark Rompf  
([preprint](http://cs.purdue.edu/~rompf/papers/amin-popl17b.pdf))

LOIS (Looping Over Infinite Sets): syntax and semantics  
Eryk Kopczynski, Szymon Toruńczyk  
([preprint](http://www.mimuw.edu.pl/~erykk/lois/lois-sem.pdf))

Learning nominal automata  
Joshua Moerman, Matteo Sammartino, Alexandra Silva, Bartek Klin, Michał Szynwelski  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1607.06268) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.06268))

Mixed-size Concurrency: ARM, POWER, C/C++11, and SC  
Shaked Flur, Susmit Sarkar, Christopher Pulte, Kyndylan Nienhuis, Luc Maranget, Kathryn E. Gray, Ali Sezgin, Mark Batty, Peter Sewell  
([preprint](http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~pes20/popl17/mixed-size.pdf))

Modules, Abstraction, and Parametric Polymorphism  
Karl Crary  
([preprint](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~crary/papers/2017/mapp.pdf))

Monadic second-order logic on finite sequences  
Loris D'Antoni, Margus Veanes  
([preprint](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~loris/papers/popl17sws1s.pdf))

Ogre and Pythia, An invariance proof method for weak consistency models  
Jade Alglave, Patrick Cousot  

On Verifying Causal Consistency  
Ahmed Bouajjani, Constantin Enea, Rachid Guerraoui, Jad Hamza  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1611.00580) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.00580))

On the Relationship Between Higher-Order Recursion Schemes and Higher-Order Fixpoint Logic  
Naoki Kobayashi, Etienne Lozes, Florian Bruse  
([preprint](http://www-kb.is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp/~koba/papers/popl2017-long.pdf))

Parallel Functional Arrays  
Ananya Kumar, Guy E. Blelloch, Robert Harper  
([preprint](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~rwh/papers/farray/popl17.pdf))

Polymorphism, subtyping and type inference in MLsub  
Stephen Dolan, Alan Mycroft  
([preprint](http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~sd601/papers/mlsub-preprint.pdf))

QWIRE: A Core Language for Quantum Circuits  
Jennifer Paykin, Robert Rand, Steve Zdancewic  
([preprint](http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~rrand/qwire.pdf))

Relational Cost Analysis  
Ezgi Çiçek, Gilles Barthe, Marco Gaboardi, Deepak Garg, Jan Hoffmann  
([preprint](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~janh/papers/CicekBGGH17.pdf))

Rigorous Floating-point Mixed Precision Tuning  
Wei-Fan Chiang, Ganesh Gopalakrishnan, Zvonimir Rakamaric, Ian Briggs, Mark S. Baranowski, Alexey Solovyev  
([implementation](https://github.com/soarlab/FPTuner))

Semantic-Directed Clumping of Disjunctive Abstract States  
Huisong Li, François Bérenger, Bor-Yuh Evan Chang, Xavier Rival  
([preprint](https://www.di.ens.fr/~rival/papers/popl17.pdf), [accepted artifact (a virtualbox VM)](https://www.di.ens.fr/~rival/papers/vm-popl17.ova), [artifact website](https://github.com/Antique-team/memcad))

Serializability for Eventual Consistency: Criterion, Analysis and Applications  
Lucas Brutschy, Dimitar Dimitrov, Peter Müller, Martin Vechev  
([preprint](http://pm.inf.ethz.ch/publications/getpdf.php?bibname=Own&id=BrutschyDimitrovMuellerVechev17.pdf))

Stateful Manifest Contracts  
Taro Sekiyama, Atsushi Igarashi  
([draft](http://www.fos.kuis.kyoto-u.ac.jp/~t-sekiym/papers/refh/draft.pdf))

Stochastic Invariants for Probabilistic Termination  
Krishnendu Chatterjee, Petr Novotny, Djordje Zikelic  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1611.01063) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.01063))

Stream Fusion, to Completeness  
Oleg Kiselyov, Aggelos Biboudis, Nick Palladinos, Yannis Smaragdakis  
([preprint](http://okmij.org/ftp/meta-programming/strymonas.pdf), [artifact website](https://strymonas.github.io/))

Sums of Uncertainty: Refinements go gradual  
Khurram A. Jafery, Joshua Dunfield  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1611.02392) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.02392))

The Geometry of Parallelism. Classical, Probabilistic, and Quantum Effects  
Ugo Dal Lago, Claudia Faggian, Benoit Valiron, Akira Yoshimizu  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1610.09629) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.09629))

The exp-log normal form of types: Decomposing extensional equality and representing terms compactly  
Danko Ilik  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1502.04634) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1502.04634))

Thread Modularity at Many Levels: a Pearl in Compositional Verification  
Jochen Hoenicke, Rupak Majumdar, Andreas Podelski  

Towards Automatic Resource Bound Analysis for OCaml  
Jan Hoffmann, Ankush Das, Shu-Chun Weng  
([preprint](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~janh/papers/HoffmannW15.pdf),
 long version available on
 [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.00692))

Type Directed Compilation of Row-Typed Algebraic Effects  
Daan Leijen  
([technical report](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/algeff-tr-2016-1.pdf), [website](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/publication/type-directed-compilation-of-row-typed-algebraic-effects/))

Type Systems as Macros  
Stephen Chang, Alex Knauth, Ben Greenman  
([preprint](http://www.ccs.neu.edu/home/stchang/pubs/ckg-popl2017.pdf), [website](http://www.ccs.neu.edu/home/stchang/popl2017/index.html), [code repo](https://bitbucket.org/stchang/macrotypes))

Typed Self-Evaluation via Intensional Type Functions  
Matt Brown, Jens Palsberg  
(article available [on the ACM DL](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3009853), [artifact website](http://compiler.cs.ucla.edu/popl17/))

## Co-located events

As of writing, the submission process for most POPL'17 co-located
events is not finished. Feel free to send a pull-request with list of
accepted papers for an event, and contribute links to the preprints.

## CoqPL 2017

CertSkel: a Verified Compiler for a Coq-embedded GPGPU DSL  
Izumi Asakura, Hidehiko Masuhara, Tomoyuki Aotani  
([preprint](http://prg.is.titech.ac.jp/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/CoqPL_2017_paper_15.pdf))  
  
CertiCoq: A verified compiler for Coq  
Abhishek Anand, Andrew Appel, Greg Morrisett, Zoe Paraskevopoulou, Randy Pollack, Olivier Savary Belanger, Matthieu Sozeau, Matthew Weaver  
  
IxFree: Step-Indexed Logical Relations in Coq  
Piotr Polesiuk  
  
Logical Relations in Iris  
Amin Timany, Robbert Krebbers, Lars Birkedal  
([preprint](https://lirias.kuleuven.be/bitstream/123456789/555709/1/CoqPL.pdf))  
  
Predicate Monads: A Framework for Proving Generic Properties of Monadic Programs via Rewriting  
Edwin Westbrook, Gregory Malecha  
  
Session with the Coq Development Team  
  
Synthetic topology in HoTT for probabilistic programming  
Florian Faissole, Bas Spitters  
  
Transferring Arithmetic Decision Procedures (on Z) to Alternative Representations  
Nicolas Magaud  
  
Verification of Implementations of Distributed Systems Under Churn  
Ryan Doenges, James R. Wilcox, Doug Woos, Zachary Tatlock, Karl Palmskog  
  
ppsimpl: a reflexive Coq tactic for canonising goals  
Frédéric Besson  

## PEPM 2017

### Papers

A Functional Reformulation of UnCAL Graph-Transformations: Or, Graph Transformation as Graph Reduction  
Kazutaka Matsuda, Kazuyuki Asada  

Lightweight Soundness for Towers of Language Extensions  
Alejandro Serrano, Jurriaan Hage  

Predicting Resource Consumption of Higher-Order Workflows  
Markus Klinik, Jurriaan Hage, Jan Martin Jansen, Rinus Plasmeijer  

Verification of Code Generators via Higher-Order Model Checking  
Takashi Suwa, Takeshi Tsukada, Naoki Kobayashi, Atsushi Igarashi  

Refining types using type guards in TypeScript  
Ivo Gabe de Wolff, Jurriaan Hage  

Cost versus Precision for Approximate Typing for Python  
Levin Fritz, Jurriaan Hage  

PEG Parsing in Less Space Using Progressive Tabling, Dynamic Analysis  
Fritz Henglein, Ulrik Terp Rasmussen  
([preprint](https://utr.dk/pubs/files/henglein2017-0-paper.pdf))

Interactive data representation migration: Exploiting program dependence to aid program transformation  
Krishna Narasimhan, Julia Lawall, Christoph Reichenbach  

Functional Parallels of Sequential Imperatives (Short Paper)  
Tiark Rompf, Kevin J. Brown  
([preprint](https://www.cs.purdue.edu/homes/rompf/papers/rompf-pepm17.pdf))

Detecting code clones with gaps by function applications  
Tsubasa Matsushita, Isao Sasano  

### Posters

Language-integrated Query with Ordering, Grouping, Outer Joins  
Tatsuya Katsushima, Oleg Kiselyov  

Study of Bellman Equation from Program Schemata Perspective  
Nikolay Shilov

Commit message:

[coqpl] Point to official repository for abstracts.

README.md, after:

# popl2017-papers

Links to [accepted papers][popl2017-accepted] for the [44th ACM
SIGPLAN-SIGACT Symposium on Principles of Programming
Languages][popl2017-website] (POPL 2017).  **Pull requests welcome!**

[popl2017-website]: http://popl17.sigplan.org/home
[popl2017-accepted]: http://popl17.sigplan.org/track/POPL-2017-papers#event-overview

(Similar pages are available for [POPL 2016][popl2016], [2015][popl2015], [2014][popl2014], and [2013][popl2013], ICFP ([2016][icfp16],
[2015][icfp15], [2014][icfp14], [2013][icfp13], [2012][icfp12]) and [PLDI 2014][pldi2014-accepted].)

[popl2013]: https://github.com/23Skidoo/popl13-papers-links
[popl2014]: https://github.com/gasche/popl2014-papers
[popl2015]: https://github.com/yallop/popl2015-papers
[popl2016]: https://github.com/gasche/popl2016-papers
[icfp12]: https://github.com/technogeeky/icfp12-paper-links
[icfp13]: https://github.com/gasche/icfp2013-papers
[icfp14]: https://github.com/yallop/icfp2014-papers
[icfp15]: https://github.com/mpickering/icfp2015-papers
[icfp16]: https://github.com/gasche/icfp2016-papers
[haskell2014-accepted]: https://github.com/yallop/haskell2014-papers
[pldi2014-accepted]: https://github.com/yallop/pldi2014-papers

Note: if you are editing this repository, please remember to use the
Markdown syntax for hard line breaks, namely two spaces at the end of
the line.

Note: the "final version" deadline for POPL'17 is November 7, so it is
fair to assume that more authors will have preprints available after
that.

## POPL 2017

A Posteriori Environment Analysis with Pushdown Delta CFA  
Kimball Germane, Matthew Might  
([preprint](http://kimball.germane.net/germane2017pddeltacfa-preprint.pdf))

A Program Optimization for Automatic Database Result Caching  
Ziv Scully, Adam Chlipala  
([preprint](http://adam.chlipala.net/papers/SqlcachePOPL17/SqlcachePOPL17.pdf), [website](http://adam.chlipala.net/papers/SqlcachePOPL17/))

A Promising Semantics for Relaxed-Memory Concurrency  
Jeehoon Kang, Chung-Kil Hur, Ori Lahav, Viktor Vafeiadis, Derek Dreyer  
([draft](http://sf.snu.ac.kr/promising/release/promising.pdf), [website](http://sf.snu.ac.kr/promise-concurrency/), [coq proofs](https://github.com/snu-sf/promising-coq))

A Relational Model of Types-and-Effects in Higher-Order Concurrent Separation Logic  
Morten Krogh-Jespersen, Kasper Svendsen, Lars Birkedal  
([preprint](http://cs.au.dk/~birke/papers/iris-effects-conf.pdf))

A Semantic Account of Metric Preservation  
Arthur Azevedo de Amorim, Ikram Cherigui, Marco Gaboardi, Justin Hsu, Shin-ya Katsumata  
([draft](https://justinh.su/files/docs/ACGHK16paper.pdf))

A Short Counterexample Property for Safety and Liveness Verification of Fault-tolerant Distributed Algorithms  
Igor Konnov, Marijana Lazic, Helmut Veith, Josef Widder  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1608.05327) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1608.05327))

Analyzing divergence in bisimulation semantics  
Xinxin Liu, Tingting Yu, Wenhui Zhang  

AutoPriv: Automating Differential Privacy Proofs  
Danfeng Zhang, Daniel Kifer  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1607.08228) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.08228))

Automatically Comparing Memory Consistency Models  
John Wickerson, Mark Batty, Tyler Sorensen, George A. Constantinides  
([preprint](https://johnwickerson.github.io/papers/memalloy.pdf))

Automatically Generating the Dynamic Semantics of Gradually Typed Languages  
Matteo Cimini, Jeremy Siek  
([preprint](http://cimini.info/publications/gradualizerDynamicSemanticspreprint.pdf))

Beginner's Luck: A Language for Property-Based Generators  
Leonidas Lampropoulos, Diane Gallois-Wong, Cătălin Hriţcu, John Hughes, Benjamin C. Pierce, Li-yao Xia  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1607.05443) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.05443))

Big Types in Little Runtime  
Michael Vitousek, Cameron Swords, Jeremy Siek  
([preprint](http://homes.soic.indiana.edu/mvitouse/papers/popl17.pdf), [supplement](http://homes.soic.indiana.edu/mvitouse/popl17sup.pdf), [artifact](http://homes.soic.indiana.edu/mvitouse/popl17artifact.html))

Cantor Meets Scott: Semantic Foundations for Probabilistic Networks  
Steffen Smolka, Praveen Kumar, Nate Foster, Dexter Kozen, Alexandra Silva  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1607.05830) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.05830))

Coming to Terms with Quantified Reasoning  
Simon Robillard, Andrei Voronkov, Laura Kovacs  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1611.02908) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.02908))

Complexity Verification Using Guided Theorem Enumeration  
Akhilesh Srikanth, Burak Sahin, William Harris  

Component-Based Synthesis for Complex APIs  
Yu Feng, Ruben Martins, Yuepeng Wang, Isil Dillig, Thomas Reps  
([preprint](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/~yufeng/papers/sypet.pdf))

Computational Higher-Dimensional Type Theory  
Carlo Angiuli, Robert Harper, Todd Wilson  
([preprint](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~rwh/papers/chitt/popl17.pdf))

Context-sensitive data dependence analysis via Linear Conjunctive Language Reachability  
Qirun Zhang, Zhendong Su  

Contextual isomorphisms  
Paul Blain Levy  
([preprint](http://www.cs.bham.ac.uk/~pbl/papers/contextiso.pdf))

Contract-based Resource Verification for Higher-order Functions with Memoization  
Ravichandhran Madhavan, Sumith Kulal, Viktor Kuncak  
([draft](https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/5b05/6f2f9bc4ba82fba40ca30a5d4fb0295d56aa.pdf))

Coupling proofs are probabilistic product programs  
Gilles Barthe, Benjamin Gregoire, Justin Hsu, Pierre-Yves Strub  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1607.03455) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.03455))

Deciding equivalence with sums and the empty type  
Gabriel Scherer  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1610.01213) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.01213))

Dijkstra Monads for Free  
Danel Ahman, Cătălin Hriţcu, Kenji Maillard, Guido Martínez, Gordon Plotkin, Jonathan Protzenko, Aseem Rastogi, Nikhil Swamy  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1608.06499) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1608.06499), [other materials](https://www.fstar-lang.org/papers/dm4free/))

Do be do be do  
Sam Lindley, Conor McBride, Craig McLaughlin  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1611.09259) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.09259), [slides](https://msp-strath.github.io/spls-16/slides/McLaughlin.pdf))

Dynamic Race Detection For C++11  
Christopher Lidbury, Alastair Donaldson  

Exact Bayesian Inference by Symbolic Disintegration  
Chung-chieh Shan, Norman Ramsey  
([preprint](http://homes.soic.indiana.edu/ccshan/rational/disintegrator.pdf))

Fast Polyhedra Abstract Domain  
Gagandeep Singh, Markus Püschel, Martin Vechev  
([preprint](http://www.srl.inf.ethz.ch/papers/POPL17-Polyhedra.pdf))

Fencing off Go: Liveness and Safety for Channel-based Programming  
Julien Lange, Nicholas Ng, Bernardo Toninho, Nobuko Yoshida  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1610.08843) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.08843), [artifact website](http://mrg.doc.ic.ac.uk/tools/gong/))

From F to DOT: Type Soundness Proofs with Definitional Interpreters  
Nada Amin, Tiark Rompf  
([preprint](https://www.cs.purdue.edu/~rompf/papers/amin-popl17a.pdf))

Genesis: Synthesizing Forwarding Tables in Multi-tenant Networks  
Kausik Subramanian, Loris D'Antoni, Aditya Akella  
([preprint](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~loris/papers/popl17genesis.pdf))

Gradual Refinement Types  
Nicolás Lehmann, Éric Tanter  
([preprint](https://pleiad.cl/papers/2017/lehmannTanter-popl2017.pdf))

Hazelnut: A Bidirectionally Typed Structure Editor Calculus  
Cyrus Omar, Ian Voysey, Michael Hilton, Jonathan Aldrich, Matthew Hammer  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1607.04180) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.04180), [website](https://hazelgrove.github.io/), [live implementation](https://hazelgrove.github.io/implementation/hz.html), [agda proofs](https://github.com/hazelgrove/agda-popl17))

Hypercollecting Semantics and its Application to Static Analysis of Information Flow  
Mounir Assaf, David Naumann, Julien Signoles, Éric Totel, Frédéric Tronel  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1608.01654) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1608.01654))

Interactive Proofs in Higher-Order Concurrent Separation Logic  
Robbert Krebbers, Amin Timany, Lars Birkedal  
([preprint](http://robbertkrebbers.nl/research/articles/proofmode.pdf))

Intersection Type Calculi of Bounded Dimension  
Andrej Dudenhefner, Jakob Rehof  
(article available [on the ACM DL](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3009862))

Invariants of Quantum Programs: Characterisations and Generation  
Mingsheng Ying, Shenggang Ying, Xiaodi Wu  
([preprint](http://ix.cs.uoregon.edu/~xiaodiwu/papers/popl17.pdf))

Java generics are Turing complete  
Radu Grigore  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1605.05274) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1605.05274))

LMS-Verify: Abstraction Without Regret for Verified Systems Programming  
Nada Amin, Tiark Rompf  
([preprint](http://cs.purdue.edu/~rompf/papers/amin-popl17b.pdf))

LOIS (Looping Over Infinite Sets): syntax and semantics  
Eryk Kopczynski, Szymon Toruńczyk  
([preprint](http://www.mimuw.edu.pl/~erykk/lois/lois-sem.pdf))

Learning nominal automata  
Joshua Moerman, Matteo Sammartino, Alexandra Silva, Bartek Klin, Michał Szynwelski  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1607.06268) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.06268))

Mixed-size Concurrency: ARM, POWER, C/C++11, and SC  
Shaked Flur, Susmit Sarkar, Christopher Pulte, Kyndylan Nienhuis, Luc Maranget, Kathryn E. Gray, Ali Sezgin, Mark Batty, Peter Sewell  
([preprint](http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~pes20/popl17/mixed-size.pdf))

Modules, Abstraction, and Parametric Polymorphism  
Karl Crary  
([preprint](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~crary/papers/2017/mapp.pdf))

Monadic second-order logic on finite sequences  
Loris D'Antoni, Margus Veanes  
([preprint](http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~loris/papers/popl17sws1s.pdf))

Ogre and Pythia, An invariance proof method for weak consistency models  
Jade Alglave, Patrick Cousot  

On Verifying Causal Consistency  
Ahmed Bouajjani, Constantin Enea, Rachid Guerraoui, Jad Hamza  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1611.00580) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.00580))

On the Relationship Between Higher-Order Recursion Schemes and Higher-Order Fixpoint Logic  
Naoki Kobayashi, Etienne Lozes, Florian Bruse  
([preprint](http://www-kb.is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp/~koba/papers/popl2017-long.pdf))

Parallel Functional Arrays  
Ananya Kumar, Guy E. Blelloch, Robert Harper  
([preprint](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~rwh/papers/farray/popl17.pdf))

Polymorphism, subtyping and type inference in MLsub  
Stephen Dolan, Alan Mycroft  
([preprint](http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~sd601/papers/mlsub-preprint.pdf))

QWIRE: A Core Language for Quantum Circuits  
Jennifer Paykin, Robert Rand, Steve Zdancewic  
([preprint](http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~rrand/qwire.pdf))

Relational Cost Analysis  
Ezgi Çiçek, Gilles Barthe, Marco Gaboardi, Deepak Garg, Jan Hoffmann  
([preprint](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~janh/papers/CicekBGGH17.pdf))

Rigorous Floating-point Mixed Precision Tuning  
Wei-Fan Chiang, Ganesh Gopalakrishnan, Zvonimir Rakamaric, Ian Briggs, Mark S. Baranowski, Alexey Solovyev  
([implementation](https://github.com/soarlab/FPTuner))

Semantic-Directed Clumping of Disjunctive Abstract States  
Huisong Li, François Bérenger, Bor-Yuh Evan Chang, Xavier Rival  
([preprint](https://www.di.ens.fr/~rival/papers/popl17.pdf), [accepted artifact (a virtualbox VM)](https://www.di.ens.fr/~rival/papers/vm-popl17.ova), [artifact website](https://github.com/Antique-team/memcad))

Serializability for Eventual Consistency: Criterion, Analysis and Applications  
Lucas Brutschy, Dimitar Dimitrov, Peter Müller, Martin Vechev  
([preprint](http://pm.inf.ethz.ch/publications/getpdf.php?bibname=Own&id=BrutschyDimitrovMuellerVechev17.pdf))

Stateful Manifest Contracts  
Taro Sekiyama, Atsushi Igarashi  
([draft](http://www.fos.kuis.kyoto-u.ac.jp/~t-sekiym/papers/refh/draft.pdf))

Stochastic Invariants for Probabilistic Termination  
Krishnendu Chatterjee, Petr Novotny, Djordje Zikelic  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1611.01063) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.01063))

Stream Fusion, to Completeness  
Oleg Kiselyov, Aggelos Biboudis, Nick Palladinos, Yannis Smaragdakis  
([preprint](http://okmij.org/ftp/meta-programming/strymonas.pdf), [artifact website](https://strymonas.github.io/))

Sums of Uncertainty: Refinements go gradual  
Khurram A. Jafery, Joshua Dunfield  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1611.02392) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.02392))

The Geometry of Parallelism. Classical, Probabilistic, and Quantum Effects  
Ugo Dal Lago, Claudia Faggian, Benoit Valiron, Akira Yoshimizu  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1610.09629) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.09629))

The exp-log normal form of types: Decomposing extensional equality and representing terms compactly  
Danko Ilik  
([preprint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1502.04634) from [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1502.04634))

Thread Modularity at Many Levels: a Pearl in Compositional Verification  
Jochen Hoenicke, Rupak Majumdar, Andreas Podelski  

Towards Automatic Resource Bound Analysis for OCaml  
Jan Hoffmann, Ankush Das, Shu-Chun Weng  
([preprint](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~janh/papers/HoffmannW15.pdf),
 long version available on
 [arXiv](https://arxiv.org/abs/1611.00692))

Type Directed Compilation of Row-Typed Algebraic Effects  
Daan Leijen  
([technical report](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/wp-content/uploads/2016/08/algeff-tr-2016-1.pdf), [website](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/research/publication/type-directed-compilation-of-row-typed-algebraic-effects/))

Type Systems as Macros  
Stephen Chang, Alex Knauth, Ben Greenman  
([preprint](http://www.ccs.neu.edu/home/stchang/pubs/ckg-popl2017.pdf), [website](http://www.ccs.neu.edu/home/stchang/popl2017/index.html), [code repo](https://bitbucket.org/stchang/macrotypes))

Typed Self-Evaluation via Intensional Type Functions  
Matt Brown, Jens Palsberg  
(article available [on the ACM DL](http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=3009853), [artifact website](http://compiler.cs.ucla.edu/popl17/))

## Co-located events

As of writing, the submission process for most POPL'17 co-located
events is not finished. Feel free to send a pull-request with list of
accepted papers for an event, and contribute links to the preprints.

## CoqPL 2017

All abstracts are available for download at the [Official CoqPL Program Page](http://conf.researchr.org/track/CoqPL-2017/main). Videos of the talks will be also made available there as soon as the ACM is done editing.

CertSkel: a Verified Compiler for a Coq-embedded GPGPU DSL  
Izumi Asakura, Hidehiko Masuhara, Tomoyuki Aotani  
([preprint](http://prg.is.titech.ac.jp/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/CoqPL_2017_paper_15.pdf))  
  
CertiCoq: A verified compiler for Coq  
Abhishek Anand, Andrew Appel, Greg Morrisett, Zoe Paraskevopoulou, Randy Pollack, Olivier Savary Belanger, Matthieu Sozeau, Matthew Weaver  
  
IxFree: Step-Indexed Logical Relations in Coq  
Piotr Polesiuk  
  
Logical Relations in Iris  
Amin Timany, Robbert Krebbers, Lars Birkedal  
([preprint](https://lirias.kuleuven.be/bitstream/123456789/555709/1/CoqPL.pdf))  
  
Predicate Monads: A Framework for Proving Generic Properties of Monadic Programs via Rewriting  
Edwin Westbrook, Gregory Malecha  
  
Session with the Coq Development Team  
  
Synthetic topology in HoTT for probabilistic programming  
Florian Faissole, Bas Spitters  
  
Transferring Arithmetic Decision Procedures (on Z) to Alternative Representations  
Nicolas Magaud  
  
Verification of Implementations of Distributed Systems Under Churn  
Ryan Doenges, James R. Wilcox, Doug Woos, Zachary Tatlock, Karl Palmskog  
  
ppsimpl: a reflexive Coq tactic for canonising goals  
Frédéric Besson  

## PEPM 2017

### Papers

A Functional Reformulation of UnCAL Graph-Transformations: Or, Graph Transformation as Graph Reduction  
Kazutaka Matsuda, Kazuyuki Asada  

Lightweight Soundness for Towers of Language Extensions  
Alejandro Serrano, Jurriaan Hage  

Predicting Resource Consumption of Higher-Order Workflows  
Markus Klinik, Jurriaan Hage, Jan Martin Jansen, Rinus Plasmeijer  

Verification of Code Generators via Higher-Order Model Checking  
Takashi Suwa, Takeshi Tsukada, Naoki Kobayashi, Atsushi Igarashi  

Refining types using type guards in TypeScript  
Ivo Gabe de Wolff, Jurriaan Hage  

Cost versus Precision for Approximate Typing for Python  
Levin Fritz, Jurriaan Hage  

PEG Parsing in Less Space Using Progressive Tabling, Dynamic Analysis  
Fritz Henglein, Ulrik Terp Rasmussen  
([preprint](https://utr.dk/pubs/files/henglein2017-0-paper.pdf))

Interactive data representation migration: Exploiting program dependence to aid program transformation  
Krishna Narasimhan, Julia Lawall, Christoph Reichenbach  

Functional Parallels of Sequential Imperatives (Short Paper)  
Tiark Rompf, Kevin J. Brown  
([preprint](https://www.cs.purdue.edu/homes/rompf/papers/rompf-pepm17.pdf))

Detecting code clones with gaps by function applications  
Tsubasa Matsushita, Isao Sasano  

### Posters

Language-integrated Query with Ordering, Grouping, Outer Joins  
Tatsuya Katsushima, Oleg Kiselyov  

Study of Bellman Equation from Program Schemata Perspective  
Nikolay Shilov
